+++
title = "ROR Community Call July 2021" 
date = "2024-09-05T18:25:49-04:00"  
draft = "false" 
style = "card-plain" 
banner = "/img/banners/ROR_Banner-grey.jpg" 
thumb = "/img/events/ror-logo-800.png" 
images = ['/img/events/ror-logo-800.png']
author = "Research Organization Registry (ROR)" 
eventtypes = ["Community Calls"]
eventarchives = ["2021"]
startdate = 2021-07-28
enddate = []
starttime = ""
duration = "1 hour"
location = "Online"
recorded = "Yes"
description = "In the May 2021 ROR Community Advisory Group meeting, we discuss the news that GRID will transition to ROR, hear about the ROR team's progress on building a curation workflow, learn about ROR's technical support site and integrations list, and listen to Crossref's report on support for the collection of ROR IDs in its input schema."
website = ""
reglink = ""
+++

## Materials 

Slides and recordings for ROR Community Calls prior to 2023 are restricted to those who were members of the ROR Community Advisory Group when the meeting was held. Contact support@ror.org if you were a member of the group and would like to see the slides, recording, or notes from this meeting.  