+++
title = " ROR Community Call July 2024" 
date = "2024-07-16" 
draft = false 
style = "card-plain" 
banner = "/img/banners/ROR_Banner-grey.jpg" 
thumb = "/img/ror-logo-800.png" 
images = ['/img/ror-logo-800.png']
author = "Research Organization Registry (ROR)" 
eventtypes = ["Community Calls"]
eventarchives = ["2024"]
startdate = 2024-07-16
enddate = []
starttime = "3pm UTC"
duration = "1 hour"
location = "Online"
recorded = "Yes"
description = "The bi-monthly ROR Community calls include updates from the ROR team, opportunities for feedback on proposals for changes to ROR policies and procedures, demonstrations and presentations by ROR users, and more. In the [ROR Community Call for July 2024](2024-07-16-ror-community-call), we hear initial thoughts on adding credentialing to the ROR API, request feedback on a proposal to add additional external identifiers to ROR records, learn about new ROR adoptions, notably DSpace 8, and see presentations from featured integrators the [American Physical Society (APS)](https://aps.org) and [Curvenote](https://curvenote.com)."
website = ""
reglink = ""
+++

## Materials

- [Slides from ROR Community Call - July 2024](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vSgY_BkF_qsfhv7wO9iSfgzmv5BZoaS-YUnAza2WNxZ_3mzjMe0PwEztV0OghE0KxGv6msC1jfceAKE/pub?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000)

{{< iframe "https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vSgY_BkF_qsfhv7wO9iSfgzmv5BZoaS-YUnAza2WNxZ_3mzjMe0PwEztV0OghE0KxGv6msC1jfceAKE/embed?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000" >}} 


## Recording

{{< youtube id="K1gfnAqsPTc" title="ROR Community Call July 2024" >}}
